               Readme for the OpenHPI Client/Daemon


                      By W. David Ashley
                          Dec, 2004
                      OpenHPI Version 2.0

This file documents the OpenHPI daemon and client libraries for the current
release.

The OpenHPI daemon allows a user to build a version of OpenHPI which runs as a
background process and accepts connections from remote clients to perform
OpenHPI library function calls. The daemon wraps the standard OpenHPI function
library with a sockets-based API that is archicture neutral for all types of
clients.

The client library is a complete replacement for the standard OpenHPI library.
The client application include the standard OpenHPI include file but links to
the client library instead of the OpenHPI library. The client library provides
all the conecction functionality needed by the client application to connect
to the OpenHPI daemon running on the local or remote server.


The OpenHPI Daemon
------------------

The daemon is compiled as a standalone application and can be run as either
a forground or background application. To compile the daemon code you need to
configure the OpenHPI compilation environment correctly. The following option
needs to be used when running the configure script for OpenHPI.

     ./configure --enable-daemon

This will ensure that the daemon application and the client library are created
at compile and link time by make. The daemon application and client libraries
will be located in the openhpid2 subdirectory.

When you run the daemon the standard method for locating the OpenHPI configuration
file is used. However, the daemon will accept a configuration file as a command
line option to override the default file.

An option in the configuration file determines the port number the daemon will
listen on for client connections. If a configuration file is not found the
the daemon will listen on port 4743 by default.


The OpenHPI Client Library
--------------------------

The OpenHPI client library is a complete replacement of the standard OpenHPI
shared library. The client application still include the standard OpenHPI
include file but it links with the client library instead of the standard
OpenHPI shared library.

The easiect method to use to link to the client library is to first run the
OpenHPI installation script.

     make install

This will install the client library in the standard system locations. You can
now use the following link flags to link the client library to your application.

     -lopenhpiclient -lopenhpimarshal -lohtcpconnx -lstdc++

When you run your application the client library uses two environment variables
to locate the daemon application.

   OPENHPI_HOST - URL for the host running the daemon. This can be "localhost"
		  if the daemon is running on the local host.
   OPENHPI_PORT - The port number the host is listening on for clent connections.
		  
If the OPENHPI_HOST variable is not found the client library uses localhost as
the default. If the OPENHPI_PORT variable is not found then the client library
uses port 4743 as the default.


General Information
-------------------

The client and the daemon do not have to be on the same hardware architecture.
The daemon could be running on a P-series processor and the client running on an
X86-serice processor. The client library and daemon use a marshaling technique
to resolve architecture and structure padding conflicts. The user does not need
to concern themselves with architectureal differences between the client and
daemon. The one exception to this rule is 64-bit architectures. The clent and
daemon currently cannot resolve differences between 32-bit and 64-bit
architectures. DO NOT MIX THESE TYPES OF ARCHITECTURES!

It is important that data passed to the client library OpenHPI functions is
correct. Passing incorrect data could cause the client library or the daemon
to crash. The client library performs an extensive set of data valication
functions for each OpenHPI function, but it is still possible for bad data to be
missed by those functions. BE CAREFUL!.







